So with that introduction under our belts,
we're gonna move now into the four
main segments of this module.
We are gonna talk about describe
collaboration networks, when we talk about
collaboration patents we are gonna focus
specifically on thinking about in terms of
networks.
And then later we will move into mapping,
on how to map collaboration networks,
how to evaluate them and how to intervene.
So moving into segment two, how do we
describe our collaboration networks.
So what I'm gonna do in this segment
is to introduce you to a number of
building blocks that can basically provide
some vocabulary, some terminology for
analyzing collaboration networks.
But let's make sure that we understand
exactly where we're coming from because I
went and introduced you to
the idea of networks pretty fast.
So what are organizational networks?
Just to make sure we really get this.
So let me show you first a picture that is
gonna look like many pictures that you're
probably familiar with.
So this is a formal structure
of an organization.
It's basically an organizational chart.
It's a real organizational chart,
it comes from the exploration and
production division of a large
petro-chemical company.
And this is the senior executives and
they're reporting structure
within this organization.
So you can see who reports to whom just
like the organizations that many of you
will be working for.
You'll probably recognize you
have a reporting structure,
an organization chart in
most organizations, right?
But when we talk about an organizational
network we mean something a little bit
different.
For this particular organization for
exploration and production division.
We can draw an organizational network that
tells us who actually interacts with who.
Who actually collaborates with whom in
this organization not whose supposed
to collaborate with him or who formally
reports to him, but who actually interacts
with him and the network that you can see
when you draw this kind of a chart is
really quite different from the one you
see in the formal organizational chart.
So if you take Cole who's at
the center of the informal network,
you see if you look at the formal
structure the organizational chart,
Cole is way down there in the side
reporting structure, right?
But in the organizational network he's
very, very central that means many people
are coming to him and
he's probably communicating and
interacting with many people
to get his work done.
So we see quite a different structure and
it sort of draws attention to some people
that we might not notice as much if we're
only looking at the formal
organizational chart.
So we have the formal structure but
when we're talking about organizational
networks we're talking about
the informal structure of the
organization, who actually works with who?
It's worth noting that there are many
different kinds of organizational networks
so we're gonna be focusing throughout
this module on collaboration networks.
Which might be who shares
information with whom,
how information flow around the network,
who shares knowledge with whom.
But we could draw networks that
are simply based on who talks to whom.
Communication, who's friendly with whom,
were friendship ties.
Who gives advice to whom, who trusts whom.
So there are many different,
and their could be many others.
There are many different basis for
drawing network maps,
but we're really focusing on
collaboration networks here.
So the kinds of ties
that we're interested in,
collaborations between
employees inside organizations.
So back to the example of a collaboration
network that I showed you in the previous
segment.
So again, if you remember
there are 15 people in this
new product development team, they're in
three different parts of the organization,
but they're working together
to get things done,
and often seeking information from each
other in order to get their work done.
So, I wanna take a minute to ask
you to think about this question.
Just looking at this network,
who do you think you might want to be?
And why?
So if you look at the network, who do you
think you might want to be in that network
and what would be your reasons?
Just take a second to think about that.
So, a quick reaction, if you're looking
at this network for the first time,
might well be, well,
I think I might wanna be Paul or
maybe I wanna be Helen in this network,
right?
And why would we say Paul or Helen?
Probably, because they're very central,
they look pretty important
in this network.
They're in the middle of all the action,
they've got lots of people coming to them
and maybe they're going to
quite a few people themselves.
And so they're in the middle of
where it's happening, right?
And so that seems like maybe
a good network position to be in.
But can you think of any reasons why
you wouldn't wanna be Paul or Helen?
Why is not a good idea sometimes
to be in the middle of a network?
So one possible reason that you might be
thinking If you actually have a lot of
people coming to you for
information or advice might be,
well it's actually takes a lot of time.
When a lot of people are knocking on your
door and asking you all the time for
things that they need, it takes away
from your structured work time.
So that might be one reason, right,
so maybe you're feeling a little
bit overloaded if you're
central in the network.
Now somebody you might
not have wanted to be.
If you think about who would you least
like to be in this network, right.
Who would you least want to be?
If you look at the map,
probably pretty quickly you might say
well I wouldn't want to be Kevin.
Kevin's pretty isolated out there.
He's all by himself.
Nobody's talking to him.
He's not talking to anybody.
It doesn't seem like it's much fun to
be Kevin and that's probably true.
Kevin seems pretty cutoff.
Now why might Kevin like being cut off?
Why might this actually be,
in some ways, an advantageous position?
Well it's not good to be out
of the network flows, but
everybody's leaving Kevin alone.
Maybe Kevin just gets on with his job,
really enjoys what he's doing,
has plenty of time to get things done.
So these are just some
very initial intuitions.
But what they start pointing us towards
is this idea that where you're positioned
in a collaboration network really matters.
So the structure of the network and your
position in that network is gonna matter
a lot for you to get your work done and
for how overloaded you feel, how satisfied
you feel, whether you enjoy being in
the workplace, lots of different things.
So when we look at a network map like
this, there's a lot going on and
we can get a little bit
of an intuition about it.
But what I wanna do is to build in
some real basic building blocks here
to help us look at this kind of
a network with more analytic rigor.
And think about, okay, so
what are the specific things that we can
learn when we look at even the simple
kind of network like this?
And this is a pretty simple network,
it's only 15 people.
So let's move towards thinking
about how can we describe
these collaboration patterns?
And I'm gonna introduce you
to five building blocks.
Network size, strength, range,
density, and centrality.
Okay, and we're gonna work
through each of these one by one.
And I'm gonna just use a very simple
form of a network to help you
understand the basic idea behind each of
these because they all have different
ways to describe even the kind of
network that we just looked at,
as well as more complex
networks inside organizations.
So let's look at network size to building
blocks first, those are building blocks.
Network size.
Okay, so building block one network
size is very straight forward, right?
We've got two people two employees
in our organization, say Sarah and
Ted, and what we're doing here.
Is we're mapping the number of people
that they collaborate with, or
that they go to and
exchange information with, right?
And we can see that Sarah
goes to five other people or
has collaborative ties with five people.
Ted, on the other hand, has collaborative
ties with eight people, right?
So Ted has a larger network than Sarah.
Very basic, generally is it a good
idea to have a larger network?
Yeah, it's probably a good idea when
you're networks relatively small,
the more people that you're connected to,
the more information you're
gonna be getting and so on.
If you're network starts getting really
large though maybe you don't want more and
more people so.
There's nothing to say that anything,
there's a particular network size
that's good or bad at this point.
We're just saying,
how do we describe networks?
Well, we can describe them in terms of
the number of people you're connected to,
in terms of its size.
Now, here's the second building block.
This is network strength, okay.
So if you look at this network, here we
have Sarah and Ted, and they both have
five network ties, five connections to
people that they're collaborating with.
But the thicker lines mean that
the ties are stronger, right?
And so what you see is even though they
both have five connections, Sara's ties,
four out of the five of them
are really pretty strong ties.
Where as Ted's ties,
only one of them is a strong tie,
the others are relatively weak ties and
that can matter.
Strong ties can be really advantageous.
You can really build
trust with those people.
You can exchange information
with them a lot.
You can believe what they say.
But it also takes a lot of time
to maintain strong relationships.
So trade-offs again a network strength.
So we've got network size,
and network strength,
are two important building blocks here.
Again, we have stronger ties,
we have weaker ties.
The third building block is network range.
So network range is a measure of how many
different groups you're connected here.
So here Sarah and
Ted both have five collaborators, or
five people that they can turn to,
exchange information with.
But Sarah, say Sarah works in
marketing in the marketing department,
all of Sarah's five connections
are within the marketing department.
Whereas Ted is connected to someone
in the marketing department, but
he's also connected to somebody, say the
red dot is R and D, and the blue dot is
Human Resources, the green dot is finance,
and the yellow dot is operations, right?
So, Ted has a much wider network range,
right?
He has a high range network.
Whereas Sarah's is a low range network.
And when you have higher network range,
you're connected to many more
different sources of information.
So your ability to get information
from different sources,
from a wider range of sources,
is much greater.
So that's the third building block.
The fourth building block
is network density.
So this is getting a little
bit more complicated here.
So network density, you start with,
just for simplicity's sake,
Sarah and Ted both have five people
that they exchange information with.
But now what I'm gonna do is give both
Sarah and Ted, each of the people that
they're connected to, I'm gonna give each
of those people five people that they
exchange information with, and you can
see some quite different patterns emerge.
So I'm gonna give each of Sarah's
connections five connections of their own.
What I'm giving them,
is the same five people as exist
already in Sarah's network.
So each of those people is
connected to each other and
that's what we call a very dense network.
On the other hand,
I'm gonna give Ted's five people,
five people that they're connected to.
Actually I'm gonna give them four, but
five people they are connected to but
they are all connected to
really different people, right.
So each of them has five different
people that they are connected to and so
you can see really different patents in
this network as a result of the way that
their second order connections work
like their friends of their friends or
the connections of their connection.
So, Sarah has a high density network,
where everybody knows each other basically
and Ted has a low density network,
where really Ted is the presenter, and
the people around the edges really
don't know each other at all.
So, again there can be benefits to
a high density versus a low density
network, right.
So if you're in a high density network,
where everybody knows each other,
that has some advantages.
There's a lot of trust in
that kind of information,
because if somebody tells you information,
you can easily confirm with your
other friends whether that
information's right or not.
But in a high-density network,
you only have those five people
to give you information.
If you are in a low density network, Ted
has a huge advantage in a sense of he has
access not only to the five people that he
has connections with but those five people
are getting information from an additional
in this case four people each.
And so they're getting a lot of extra
information that doesn't exist in the high
density network.
So in a low density network, you have
access to a lot more information, but
you don't have a lot of that trust and
verification because somebody can tell you
something, and you have no way to verify
whether that source is reliable you have
nobody else who's connected to them.
So that's a high density
versus a low density network.
And then the last building block,
which is very related,
is the idea of network centrality.
So, Sarah and all her contacts are all
equally central in their networks.
They're all connected to the same
number of other people and
they're all connected to
the same set of other people.
So they're all equally central, but
you can quickly see that Ted's network.
There's a lot of variation and
who's most central.
Ted has most central there.
He really basically has access to all the
information and that's sort how to system.
The people that he is connected
directly to are moderately central but
the people that they're connected
to are relatively peripheral.
They only have basically access to,
one of Ted's friends.
So centrality, we had those
intuitive ideas about centrality
right from the beginning when we looked
at our new product development team.
Here, we can see that centrality
is actually something we can
measure and track.
And that is has different implications,
depending on the configuration and
structure of your network.
So back to our example of
this collaboration network.
You see some, these five building blocks
give us a different way to think about,
or a more rigorous way to
analyze the network features for
each individual on this network, right?
So, we can ask, for
each of these individuals,
what's the size of their network, right?
It's pretty clear that Paul has
a pretty large network, and
Kevin has a pretty small network, right.
And we got that just by looking
at this map in the first place.
We can look at network strengths,
and whether those ties are strong,
and perhaps two-directional, and
whether they're pretty weak.
We can look at network range.
So if you think about that,
who has the highest range in this network.
So remember range is about how many
different part of the organization for
example, different groups
you're connected to.
So here, it's pretty clear that Paul
has the highest network range, right?
Because Paul is connected,
he's in finance, and
he's connected to people who are both in
manufacturing and in marketing, and nobody
else is connected to all three groups in
that way, so he has the highest range.
If you think about density,
who has the densest network?
So one of those groups where
everybody knows everybody.
So Helen's network looks pretty dense,
right?
Whereas Paul's network is pretty space,
Paul doesn't have a lot of
people who know each other.
Paul's one of those very central people
In a networks that's pretty sparse.
Helen is a pretty central person
in a network that's pretty dense.
So they're both high in centrality.
Helen's network is denser than Paul's
network just by eyeballing this.
These are numbers that we can calculate
and are formulae for actually calculating
how dense a network is and
how central people are in their networks.
So when we think about this question
of who do you wanna be in this
network and why?
We can actually apply
these building blocks,
analytic building blocks
to start understanding and
preparing across individuals, and
to understand their network positions.
So those are the basic building blocks for
understanding and
describing collaboration networks.
As we're gonna move forward, we're gonna
think about how to map those networks.
How do we generate a network map that
helps us to see who is doing what and
who is collaborating with whom inside
an organization that we wanna study?